======= ===============
GSS7402 R Documentation
======= ===============

US General Social Survey 1974–2002
----------------------------------

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

Cross-section data for 9120 women taken from every fourth year of the US
General Social Survey between 1974 and 2002 to investigate the
determinants of fertility.

Usage
~~~~~

::

   data("GSS7402")

Format
~~~~~~

A data frame containing 9120 observations on 10 variables.

kids
   Number of children. This is coded as a numerical variable but note
   that the value ``8`` actually encompasses 8 or more children.

age
   Age of respondent.

education
   Highest year of school completed.

year
   GSS year for respondent.

siblings
   Number of brothers and sisters.

agefirstbirth
   Woman's age at birth of first child.

ethnicity
   factor indicating ethnicity. Is the individual Caucasian (``"cauc"``)
   or not (``"other"``)?

city16
   factor. Did the respondent live in a city (with population > 50,000)
   at age 16?

lowincome16
   factor. Was the income below average at age 16?

immigrant
   factor. Was the respondent (or both parents) born abroad?

Details
~~~~~~~

This subset of the US General Social Survey (GSS) for every fourth year
between 1974 and 2002 has been selected by Winkelmann and Boes (2009) to
investigate the determinants of fertility. To do so they typically
restrict their empirical analysis to the women for which the completed
fertility is (assumed to be) known, employing the common cutoff of 40
years. Both, the average number of children borne to a woman and the
probability of being childless, are of interest.

Source
~~~~~~

Online complements to Winkelmann and Boes (2009).

References
~~~~~~~~~~

Winkelmann, R., and Boes, S. (2009). *Analysis of Microdata*, 2nd ed.
Berlin and Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag.

See Also
~~~~~~~~

``WinkelmannBoes2009``

Examples
~~~~~~~~

::

   ## completed fertility subset
   data("GSS7402", package = "AER")
   gss40 <- subset(GSS7402, age >= 40)

   ## Chapter 1
   ## exploratory statistics
   gss_kids <- prop.table(table(gss40$kids))
   names(gss_kids)[9] <- "8+"

   gss_zoo <- as.matrix(with(gss40, cbind(
     tapply(kids, year, mean),
     tapply(kids, year, function(x) mean(x <= 0)),
     tapply(education, year, mean))))
   colnames(gss_zoo) <- c("Number of children",
     "Proportion childless", "Years of schooling")
   gss_zoo <- zoo(gss_zoo, sort(unique(gss40$year)))

   ## visualizations instead of tables
   barplot(gss_kids,
     xlab = "Number of children ever borne to women (age 40+)",
     ylab = "Relative frequencies")

   library("lattice")
   trellis.par.set(theme = canonical.theme(color = FALSE))
   print(xyplot(gss_zoo[,3:1], type = "b", xlab = "Year"))


   ## Chapter 3, Example 3.14
   ## Table 3.1
   gss40$nokids <- factor(gss40$kids <= 0, levels = c(FALSE, TRUE), labels = c("no", "yes"))
   gss40$trend <- gss40$year - 1974
   nokids_p1 <- glm(nokids ~ 1, data = gss40, family = binomial(link = "probit"))
   nokids_p2 <- glm(nokids ~ trend, data = gss40, family = binomial(link = "probit"))
   nokids_p3 <- glm(nokids ~ trend + education + ethnicity + siblings,
     data = gss40, family = binomial(link = "probit"))
   lrtest(nokids_p1, nokids_p2, nokids_p3)


   ## Chapter 4, Figure 4.4
   library("effects")
   nokids_p3_ef <- effect("education", nokids_p3, xlevels = list(education = 0:20))
   plot(nokids_p3_ef, rescale.axis = FALSE, ylim = c(0, 0.3))


   ## Chapter 8, Example 8.11
   kids_pois <- glm(kids ~ education + trend + ethnicity + immigrant + lowincome16 + city16,
     data = gss40, family = poisson)
   library("MASS")
   kids_nb <- glm.nb(kids ~ education + trend + ethnicity + immigrant + lowincome16 + city16,
     data = gss40)
   lrtest(kids_pois, kids_nb)


   ## More examples can be found in:
   ## help("WinkelmannBoes2009")
