======= ===============
epa2012 R Documentation
======= ===============

Vehicle info from the EPA
-------------------------

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

Details from the EPA.

Usage
~~~~~

::

   epa2012

Format
~~~~~~

A data frame with 1129 observations on the following 28 variables.

model_yr
   a numeric vector

mfr_name
   Manufacturer name.

division
   Vehicle division.

carline
   Vehicle line.

mfr_code
   Manufacturer code.

model_type_index
   Model type index.

engine_displacement
   Engine displacement.

no_cylinders
   Number of cylinders.

transmission_speed
   Transmission speed.

city_mpg
   City mileage.

hwy_mpg
   Highway mileage.

comb_mpg
   Combined mileage.

guzzler
   Whether the car is considered a "guzzler" or not, a factor with
   levels ``N`` and ``Y.``

air_aspir_method
   Air aspiration method.

air_aspir_method_desc
   Air aspiration method description.

transmission
   Transmission type.

transmission_desc
   Transmission type description.

no_gears
   Number of gears.

trans_lockup
   Whether transmission locks up, a factor with levels ``N`` and ``Y``.

trans_creeper_gear
   A factor with level ``N`` only.

drive_sys
   Drive system, a factor with levels.

drive_desc
   Drive system description.

fuel_usage
   Fuel usage, a factor with levels.

fuel_usage_desc
   Fuel usage description.

class
   Class of car.

car_truck
   Car or truck, a factor with levels ``car``, ``1``, ``2``.

release_date
   Date of vehicle release.

fuel_cell
   Whether the car has a fuel cell or not, a factor with levels ``N``,
   ``Y``.

Source
~~~~~~

Fueleconomy.gov, Shared MPG Estimates: Toyota Prius 2012.

Examples
~~~~~~~~

::


   library(ggplot2)
   library(dplyr)

   # Variable descriptions
   distinct(epa2012, air_aspir_method_desc, air_aspir_method)
   distinct(epa2012, transmission_desc, transmission)
   distinct(epa2012, drive_desc, drive_sys)
   distinct(epa2012, fuel_usage_desc, fuel_usage)

   # Guzzlers and their mileages
   ggplot(epa2012, aes(x = city_mpg, y = hwy_mpg, color = guzzler)) +
     geom_point() +
     facet_wrap(~guzzler, ncol = 1)

