===== ===============
sp500 R Documentation
===== ===============

Financial information for 50 S&P 500 companies
----------------------------------------------

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

Fifty companies were randomly sampled from the 500 companies in the S&P
500, and their financial information was collected on March 8, 2012.

Usage
~~~~~

::

   sp500

Format
~~~~~~

A data frame with 50 observations on the following 12 variables.

market_cap
   Total value of all company shares, in millions of dollars.

stock
   The name of the stock (e.g. ``AAPL`` for Apple).

ent_value
   Enterprise value, which is an alternative to market cap that also
   accounts for things like cash and debt, in millions of dollars.

trail_pe
   The market cap divided by the earnings (profits) over the last year.

forward_pe
   The market cap divided by the forecasted earnings (profits) over the
   next year.

ev_over_rev
   Enterprise value divided by the company's revenue.

profit_margin
   Percent of earnings that are profits.

revenue
   Revenue, in millions of dollars.

growth
   Quartly revenue growth (year over year), in millions of dollars.

earn_before
   Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, in
   millions of dollars.

cash
   Total cash, in millions of dollars.

debt
   Total debt, in millions of dollars.

Source
~~~~~~

Yahoo! Finance, retrieved 2012-03-08.

Examples
~~~~~~~~

::


   library(ggplot2)

   ggplot(sp500, aes(x = ent_value, y = earn_before)) +
     geom_point() +
     labs(x = "Enterprise value", y = "Earnings")

   ggplot(sp500, aes(x = ev_over_rev, y = forward_pe)) +
     geom_point() +
     labs(x = "Enterprise value / revenue, logged",
          y = "Market cap / forecasted earnings, logged")

   ggplot(sp500, aes(x = ent_value, y = earn_before)) +
     geom_point() +
     scale_x_log10() +
     scale_y_log10() +
     labs(x = "Enterprise value", y = "Earnings")

   ggplot(sp500, aes(x = ev_over_rev, y = forward_pe)) +
     geom_point() +
     scale_x_log10() +
     scale_y_log10() +
     labs(x = "Enterprise value / revenue, logged",
          y = "Market cap / forecasted earnings, logged")
