.. container::

   ======= ===============
   OCC1950 R Documentation
   ======= ===============

   .. rubric:: Evolution of occupational distribution in the US
      :name: evolution-of-occupational-distribution-in-the-us

   .. rubric:: Description
      :name: description

   Proportion of the US population in each of the 283 ``OCC1950``
   occupation codes for each year in the `Integrated Public Use
   Microdata Series (IPUMS) - US
   database <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPUMS>`__.

   .. rubric:: Usage
      :name: usage

   ::

      data("OCC1950")

   .. rubric:: Format
      :name: format

   A ``matrix`` with one row for each of 281 OCC1950 occupation codes in
   IPUMS-US and one column for each year in their dataset as of
   2020-03-17, being ``c(1850:1880, 1900:2000, 2001:2016)``.

   .. rubric:: Details
      :name: details

   This dataset was created using the code in the IPUMS vignette in the
   ``Ecfun`` package using
   ``tapply(HHWT, IPUMSdata[c("OCC1950", "YEAR")], sum)``, then
   normalizing so the total for each year was 1.

   In fact a plot of the sums for each year of ``HHWT`` were close to
   the ``USGDPpresidents$population.K*1000`` except for 1970, when they
   were double.

   Universe Note from the IPUMS documentation for their variable
   ``OCC1950``: "New Workers" are persons seeking employment for the
   first time, who had not yet secured their first job.

   OCC1950 applies the 1950 Census Bureau occupational classification
   system to occupational data, to enhance comparability across years.
   For pre-1940 samples created at the University of Minnesota, the
   alphabetic responses supplied by enumerators were directly coded into
   the 1950 classification. For other samples, the information in the
   variable OCC was recoded into the 1950 classification. Codes above
   970 are non-occupational responses retained in the historical census
   samples or blank/unknown. The design of OCC1950 is described at
   length in "Integrated Occupation and Industry Codes and Occupational
   Standing Variables in the IPUMS.". The composition of the 1950
   occupation categories is described in detail in U.S. Bureau of the
   Census, Alphabetic Index of Occupations and Industries: 1950
   (Washington D.C., 1950).

   In 1850-1880, any laborer with no specified industry in a household
   with a farmer is recoded into farm labor. In 1860-1900, any woman
   with an occupational response of "housekeeper" enters the
   non-occupational category "keeping house" if she is related to the
   head of household. Cases affected by these imputation procedures are
   identified by an appropriate data quality flag (present in the raw
   IPUMS data but ignored for this summary).

   A parallel variable called OCC1990, available for the samples from
   1950 onward, codes occupations into a simplified version of the 1990
   occupational coding scheme." [OCC1990 was ignored for the present
   purposes, because it is not coded for data prior to 1950.]

   NOTE: In the 2020-03-17 extraction, there were 283 OCC1950 codes
   documented, but only 291 of them were actually in the data I got. The
   codes for "Not yet classified" and "New Workers" were not used.

   .. rubric:: Source
      :name: source

   Steven Ruggles, Sarah Flood, Ronald Goeken, Josiah Grover, Erin
   Meyer, Jose Pacas, and Matthew Sobek (2020) `IPUMS USA: Version 10.0
   [dataset]. Minneapolis, MN:
   IPUMS <https://doi.org/10.18128/D010.V10.0>`__.

   .. rubric:: Examples
      :name: examples

   ::

      data(OCC1950)
